{\rtf1\ansi\deff1
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2 times;}{\f1\fnil\fprq0 arial;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0 sans-serif;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\snext1 Standard;}
{\s2\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\sbasedon1\snext2 Header;}
{\s3\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\sbasedon1\snext3 Footer;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern5170}}\deftab720
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1417\margrsxn1417\margtsxn1133\margbsxn1133\pgdscnxt0 Standard;}
{\pgdsc1\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1417\margrsxn1417\margtsxn720\margbsxn720\headery0{\*\headeryb0\headerxl0\headerxr0}{\header \pard\plain \s2\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 
\par }
\footery0{\*\footeryt413\footerxl0\footerxr0}{\footer \pard\plain \s3\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 
\par }
\pgdscnxt1 RTF-SectionPage(1);}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1417\margr1417\margt720\margb720\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1417\margrsxn1417\margtsxn1133\margbsxn1823\headery720{\header \pard\plain \s2\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 
\par }
\footery720{\footer \pard\plain \s3\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 
\par }
\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s1\f2\fs36\b\ql David Burchell
\par \pard\plain 1612 Kingston Rd.
\par \pard\plain Lincoln, Nebraska  68506
\par Phone: 402-817-8252
\par Email: burchell@acm.org
\par URL: http://www.linkedin.com/in/evaddnomaid
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb288\f2\fs36\b\ql Technical Skills Summary

\par \pard\plain \s1\sb96\ql{\b Internet Technologies: }
TCP/IP, HTTP, HTML, XML, XSL (XSLT and XSL-FO), DocBook, SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol), REST (Representational State Transfer), MODX, WordPress, Apache, CGI, Microsoft ASP (Active Server Pages).
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb96\ql{\b Operating Systems: }
Unix, Linux, HP Public Cloud, Ubuntu, MacOS, Solaris, UnixWare, DG/UX, Microsoft Windows.
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb96\ql{\b Hardware: }
Intel-based PCs, SPARC-based (including Sun Microsystems) workstations and servers.
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb96\ql{\b Software: }
Vagrant, Zendesk, GetSatisfaction, SupportSuite, JIRA, Google Apps for Enterprise, git, Subversion, CVS (Concurrent Versioning System), The GIMP, TeX, LaTeX, LyX, Samba, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, Open Office.
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb96\ql{\b Languages: }
PHP, JavaScript, Perl, C, Awk, bash, ksh (Korn shell), Visual Basic.
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb96\ql{\b Databases: }
Oracle, MySQL, CouchDB, PostgreSQL, Microsoft SQL Server.
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb96\ql{\b Natural Language: }
French (basic reading and writing).

\par \pard\plain \s1\sb288\f2\fs36\b\ql Publications


\par \pard\plain\sb96 {2004:} {\i PayPal Hacks} by Shannon Sofield, Dave Nielsen, and Dave Burchell.  Published by O'Reilly Media; see http://www.ora.com/catalog/payhks/.


\par \pard\plain \s1\sb288\f2\fs36\b\ql Employment

\par \pard\plain \s1\sb96\b\ql July 2006\endash present: Contractor, various
\par \pard\plain \s1\fi288\ql Various contract programming assignments using Perl, PHP, MySQL, Linux, XML, Javascript, Google Apps, and Web Services. Built or expanded websites using MODx.  Created APIs for easy access to embedded data collection systems through Web scraping.  Replaced one-off database-driven sites with an expandable, versatile, general purpose site.  Brought software development best practices such as code review, bug tracking, product planning, and source code revision tracking to projects previously without them.
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb96\b\ql September 2008\endash September 2012: Community Manager, Skyfire
\par \pard\plain \s1\fi288\ql Responded to user questions and comments.  Tracked bugs with JIRA bug tracking software.  Wrote "frequently asked question" questions and answers.  Edited software release notes.  Facilitated productive and harmonious interaction in community forums.  Coordinated alpha test program.  Responded to user questions and automated user support tasks using Zendesk.
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb96\b\ql Dec. 2006\endash Oct. 2007: Web Developer, RSI Medical
\par \pard\plain \s1\fi288\ql Contract position.  Worked with in-house software developers to create a PHP-based intranet Web application with a Microsoft SQL back-end.  Created client-side features with Javascript.  Tracked project bugs and features with Bugzilla.  Rolled out and maintained version tracking for the project with CVSNT server and TortoiseCVS client.
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb96\b\ql Oct. 2003\endash July 2006: Developer Technical Support Associate, PayPal
\par \pard\plain \s1\fi288\ql Assisted online merchants and software developers integrating PayPal Website Payments Pro.  Responsible for rapid and accurate answers to concrete technical questions.  Provided escalated customer support for technical issues.  Maintained consistent and timely official response to questions posted to company-sponsored electronic discussion boards.  Expedited operations response to technical requests referred by C-level officers.
\par \pard\plain \s1\fi288\ql Developed and conducted educational seminars for prospective PayPal customers, from enterprise to small business.  Provided on-the-spot pre-sales technical consultation for developers and merchants considering a PayPal solution, via phone and in person.  Developed sample applications in Perl, Python, PHP, and the Unix shell for instructing developers new to the PayPal APIs.  Coordinated with in-house account managers for large business customers to integrate PayPal with the merchant's specific business needs.
\par \pard\plain \s1\fi288\ql Developed an XML-based document processing system for automatic publishing of internationalized user agreement from loosely-structured XML source files.  Implemented integrated documentation and example code provisioning system from scratch using XML technologies, including customized versions for different user bases (see http://65.109.103.103/Dave/api_sourcebook/html/).  Provided XML, XSLT/XSL-FO, XHTML, and DocBook expertise to other technical document management projects.
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb96\b\ql Nov. 2002\endash July 2003: Director of Operations, Global NetWatch
\par \pard\plain \s1\fi288\ql Directed day-to-day technical operations and provided front-line technical support.  Implemented customer task tracking system.  Created technical operations manual.  Automated report generation using SQL, XML, XSLT, SVG, and XSL-FO.  Maintained global network of Internet monitoring nodes.
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb96\b\ql Dec. 2000\endash Dec. 2001: Director of Development, Nebraska Online
\par \pard\plain \s1\fi288\ql Supervised five-member technical operations and software development team.  Specified, designed, and implemented Web services software.  Directed technical strategy.  Assisted junior programmers with design, troubleshooting, and optimization.  Led documentation project.  Managed office LAN Samba server.
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb96\b\ql June 1997\endash Nov. 2000: Computer Specialist, Midwest Archeological Center, National Park Service
\par \pard\plain \s1\fi288\ql Managed Sun Solaris 2.5 Unix workstations, including OS and hardware upgrades.  Administered 50-user Novell Netware 3.12 network.  Integrated Unix and Novell systems.  Installed and maintained Linux servers with Apache HTTP server and Samba file and print server.  Installed, repaired, and supported 50 end-user PCs.  Recommended, evaluated, and procured all hardware and software.  Supervised student assistants.  Initiated unified end-user and system operator documentation project.
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb96\b\ql Sept. 1995\endash June 1997: Computer Specialist, Nebraska Network for Children and Families
\par \pard\plain \s1\fi288\ql Managed Sun Solaris Unix servers for use with research and outreach project of the University of Nebraska\emdash Lincoln's Center on Children, Families, and the Law, including account management, user help-line support, and general system administration.  Designed and implemented Web applications.  Supervised student assistant.  Helped write grant applications.
\par \pard\plain \s1\fi288\ql Ported legacy database applications to the Internet using SQL DBMS, Unix, Perl, and the World Wide Web.  Developed evaluation software in Perl to enable research component.  Provided Windows 3.1 and 95 support and integrated Unix and Microsoft systems with Samba.  Trained users to develop content with Unix and the Web.  Managed Internet electronic mailing lists.  Recommended, evaluated, and procured server hardware and software.
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb96\b\ql Jan. 1995\endash Sept. 1995: Network Technician, Nebraska Department of Education
\par \pard\plain \s1\fi288\ql Assisted in administration of 200-user Novell NetWare 3.11 LAN.  Planned and developed experimental Internet-based data collection and dissemination systems.  Administered Novell UnixWare host.
\par \pard\plain \s1\fi288\ql Provided user support and training for various software packages including Word Perfect, Office, Quattro Pro, and OfficeVision.
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb96\b\ql May 1994\endash Aug. 1994: Information Systems Consultant, Ira Wasserman Associates
\par \pard\plain \s1\fi288\ql Installed IBM personal computer compatible Ethernet LANs and NOSs, including Novell NetWare and LANtastic.
\par \pard\plain \s1\fi288\ql Researched and recommended application software and information processing strategies.  Designed and executed software marketing plans.
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb96\b\ql 1992\endash 1994: Computer Clerk, United States Geological Survey
\par \pard\plain \s1\fi288\ql Administered TCP/IP LAN of Unix workstations and Prime minicomputer with Internet connection.  Provided primary user support.  Created spot software solutions to meet scientific data processing needs as they arose.
\par \pard\plain \s1\fi288\ql Installed and maintained hardware and software.  Trained users in system use and scientific data management techniques.  Evaluated and recommended hardware and software solutions.  Designed, implemented, and carried out data security and backup operations.  (Part-time position.)
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb96\b\ql 1991\endash 1992: Computer Laboratory Consultant, University of Nebraska 
Institute of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Computer Resources 
Division
\par \pard\plain \s1\fi288\ql Provided user support for LAN of microcomputers and IBM VM/CMS mainframe system.
\par \pard\plain \s1\fi288\ql Trained and supported users of various software packages including Word Perfect, Quattro, Lotus 1-2-3, Lotus Freelance, and OfficeVision.  (Part-time position.)

\par \pard\plain \s1\sb288\f2\fs36\b\ql Education


\par \pard\plain\sb96{\b 1989: } Minden High School, Minden, Nebraska.

\par \pard\plain\sb96{\b 2011: } University of Nebraska\emdash Lincoln.
 Bachelor of Science, Computer Science.
\par }
	